---
title: Week 26
description: Week 26
header: Week 26
---

# Cleaning up sound

It may come as no surprise that when training a speech recognition system, it's probably better to have high quality audio. A high quality, clean audio file should have few acoustic artifacts, making it much easier to deal with than an audio file that was recorded in an noisy environment. For example, the VoxForge corpus contains high quality clean audio recordings, but the CHILDES corpus contains many old audio recording that lack clarity. Additionally, because these recordings are of young children and their parents, these audio recordings are often inconsistent.

So this week I worked on trying to remove unnecessary silences and denoise some of these artifacts, remove any unnecessary silence so that we can have both good training and testing data, and so that our acoustic analysis of the audio corpus is easier.
<div>


There are a TON of ways to "clean" and equalize/compress a signal. For our purposes, we use standard MATLAB tools to help reduce the noisiness of these CHILDES recordings. Though, I do want to point out that many digital audio workstations (DAW) like Adobe Audition and Pro Tools offer premier <i>noise reduction</i> audio signal processing tools. Again, I probably won't use these, but I really like Adobe Audition:


# More than just interest

A couple of weeks ago I wanted to understand and describe the relationship between interest and learning. I believe this is an important concept to the project, so I tried to describe how a child's interest is crucial for their language development. However, while I still believe interest is an essential component of any kind of learning, I do think their are other motivations or mechanisms that help us master all sorts of complex systems and concepts. For instance, the fear of appearing "dumb" (embarrasement & shame) and competition are also strong motivations for learning. Additionally, I find it inefficient and even inhibiting to only learn about one's interest, as so much of our interest come from <i> weird </i> human biases. Even more, interest can only develop one so much, there must be other mechanism imposed by the enviornment and one's developmental needs.

# Tapia Submission
This week me and [Rebekah](https://rebekahmanweiler.wixsite.com/rebekahmanweiler/cra-w-blog) worked on finishing our submission to the [ACM Richard Tapia Celebration of Diversity in Computing Conference](http://tapiaconference.org/). Really cool to see how our two projects are coming together.



<!-- [VoxForge Audio]()

[Original CHILDES Audio]()

[Clean CHILDES Audio]()



# LTASS

# STFT

# Other acoustic measurements

# SNR, Articulation Index, Stoi

# Cleaning up scripts

# Kaldi notes

# Tapia

# Processing notes pt.2

## Circles

## Raspberry Pi & Processing -->

Best, <br />
EO
