---
title: Week 24
description: Week 24
header: Week 24
---

## The relationship between interest and learning
This week I spent collecting the results from the LTASS experiments. I especially focused on visualizing these results because soon it will be research season. In fact, one of the components I wanted to do better is visualizing these results in a interesting and clear way. So, I'm shooting for something simple but deep! Descriptive art pieces? I also spent time brainstorming interesting ways I can showcase speech recognition and highlight the relationship between speech recognition and language learning. Ultimately I did this because I think it will do a couple of things for me:

1. <i>Reintroduce the goal of this project to myself</i>
2. <i>Have fun learning about new ways to visualize my data and results</i>
3. <i>Begin building the story of how and why I chose to model language learning (MLL) using these methods</i>

Because to me, the coolest part of research is coming up with creative ways to present an idea or set of ideas to people. These are frameworks (stories?) that could potentially transform the way people think about the world. I mean, from my point of view this is super difficult. And often it doesn't appear that glamorous. However, I know that's where I want to go with this.

### The role of a child's interest
What does it take for a child to acquire (learn) a language? Certainly, it is some contribution of the child's intuition or implicit knowledge about the world and their environment. For instance, while it is not ethical to subject people to feral child experiments, [Genie](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Genie_(feral_child)) tells us a lot. So, assuming that children are in the appropriate  social and linguistic environment that supports their native tongue, what contributions from other humans are required for the child to acquire language

There turns out to be a lot of interesting infancy and developmental psychology research that discusses such items. Here I won't attempt to unpack centuries of results from these fields, nor pretend to understand them. Instead, I want to point to Trevarthen (1979) where he describes how the <i>control</i> people share during typical conversations is the basis for showing how an infant’s <i>consciousness</i> and <i>intentionality</i> can be used to instruct the parent in establishing consistent communication. That is, because there is a certain level of intelligence that the child shows and the parent <i>recognizes</i>, they are willing to share control appropriately during interaction. From there, parents can more easily become aligned with the interest of the child and developmental needs, producing a sort of long-term training session. So in the end, the child has interest and the parent becomes interested in the child and their interest allowing the child to become interested (more interested) in the parent and their interest. Well! That's quite the theory.

<b>tldr</b>; <i>It takes time to learn a language, but perhaps being interested is motivation or a force that propells us through progress.</i>

## LTASS
I don't think I have been very clear about what exactly LTASS is trying to accomplish. This is partly because I don't understand it very well. This week I spent some more time trying explain LTASS and it's associated concepts.


## Cleaning up my mess
I believe it's time to make functions out of all the data collection methods I've been using. I've been neglecting this, but I need to be more productive. The pattern generating these results don't strike me as too difficult to manage, but I know I could always have clearer descriptions.




Best, <br />
EO
