---
title: Week 36
description: Week 36
header: Week 36
---

# Notes from Monday
For a recap, I'm still trying to estimate the Long Term Average Speech Spectrum (LTASS) and other associated frequency characteristics for the CHILDES corpus. To be honest, I have spent the last 2 months trying to calculate these frequency summary statistics. Im fact, much of the deliberation has been due to getting stuck with MATLAB, my lack of understanding of LTASS, and school (i.e. the emotional burden of education). However, instead of pondering about what has been driving my unproductivity, I reason that this has been helpful in exposing my technical, conceptual, and even emotional gaps. So from here, I will attempt to correct or supplement or these perceived weaknesses.

## Changing sampling rate
In order to properly calculate LTASS it is necessary that all the audio files have the same sampling frequency. Namely, a sampling frequency of 16 kHz. 16 kHz was chosen because 16 kHz is a smaller quantity than 22 kHz and thus reducing the audio files sampling frequency to 16 kHz can improve the overall time it takes to process these signals. Moreover, humans can perceive sounds between the frequency ranges of 20 Hz to 20 kHz while intelligible speech (voice frequency) doesn't contain frequencies above 3.4 kHz. And according to the Nyquist Sampling Theorem, in order to reliably reconstruct all the frequency components of a signal, the sampling frequency must be greater than twice the maximum frequency component. Thus, it is common for audio equipment to sample at 44.1 kHz (Sampling Frequency > (2 * 20 kHz)), 48 kHz, and even 96 kHz. Of course, the effects of having such a high sample frequency on speech perception is debatable (call an audiophile). Though, in 1995 Yoshikawa et al. showed that brain activity is still affected by the presence of high-frequency sounds (i.e. sounds with frequencies above 20 kHz). At any rate, we only need a bandwidth of 8 kHz (1/2 of 16 kHz) because again.

```c
% Read in audio file
[input_signal, Fs] = audioread('Bernstein_Children_Alice_alice1_1.wav');

% To change the sample rate from old sampling frequency to 16 kHz
% Determine a rational number P/Q, such that (P/Q)*originalFs = 16 kHz
[P,Q] = rat(16e3/Fs)

% Check to see how much this new quantity differs from the original sampling frequency
abs(P/Q*Fs-16000)

% Resample audio file at desired sampling frequency
resampled_signal = resample(input_signal, P, Q);
```

<!-- # Notes from Tuesday

# SuiyÅbi no memo

# Thursday

# Friday

# Sunday -->



Best, <br />
EO
